---
title: polyfit, polynom
url: https://zorro-project.com/manual/en/polyfit.htm
category: Functions
subcategory: None
related_pages:
- [predict](predict.htm)
- [adviseLong, adviseShort](advisor.htm)
- [frechet](detect.htm)
---

# polyfit, polynom

## polyfit (var* Coeff, var* Data, int Length, int Order, var Weight) : var 

Polynomial regression. Generates a polynomial of the form **_y = a_**** _n_** x** _n_**** _\+ ... + a_**** _1_**** _x + a_**** _0_** that is the best fit to a section of a price series or any other data series. This polynomial can be used for extrapolating the **Data** series into the future, and thus predicting future prices. 

### Parameters:

**Coeff** | A **var[8]** array for storing the calculated polynomial coefficients **_a_**** _n_** , or **0** for storing the coefficients internally.   
---|---  
**Data** | Data series to be approximated by the polynomial.  
**Length** | Number of elements in the **Data** series to be approximated by the polynomial.  
**Order** | Order of the polynomial (**1..7**). Use **1** for linear regression, **2** for parabolic (quadratic) regression, and higher numbers for _**n**_ th-order regression.   
**Weight** | Ratio of the weight of the last data value to the weight of the first value, for "fading-memory" polynomials. Use **1** for equal weights.   
  
### Returns

Correlation coefficient, normally in the **0..1** range. Gives the similarity of the price curve and the polynomial.   

### Modifies

**Coeff** \- set to the coefficients of the polynomial, in the order of their index, starting with C**oeff[0]**. The remaining coefficients are set to 0. 

## polynom (var* Coeff, int Offs) : var 

Returns the value of the polynomial with the given coefficients at a given offset. 

### Parameters:

**Coeff** | A **var[8]** array that contains the polynomial coefficients **_a_**** _n_** , or **0** for using the last coefficients generated by **polyfit**.   
---|---  
**Offs** | The offset into the polyfit **Data** series of the returned polynomial value. Use negative offsets for extending the series into the future.   
  
### Returns

Value of the polynomial at the given bar offset.  
  

### Remarks:

  * Polynomials of order **1** (straight line), **2** (parabola), or **3** are useful for price change predictions. Higher order polynomials are unlikely to give good predictions. 
  * The weight ratio can be used for giving recent data more weight; however the best predictions are usually generated with **weight** at **1**. 
  * For better accuracy in price prediction, don't fit the polynomial to a price series, but to a series of price differences. Price differences vary more than prices and thus give more accurate correlation coefficients. 
  * As data series are stored in reverse order, a rising data series generates a polynomial with a falling slope, and vice versa. 
  * For predicting curve events with polynomial regression, such as crossovers, peaks, or valleys, use the [predict](predict.htm) function. 
  * For logistic linear regression with multiple variables, use the [advise(PERCEPTRON,...)](advisor.htm) function.

### Examples:

```c
// least square moving average indicator
var LSMA(vars Data,int Period,int Offset)
{
  polyfit(0,Data,Period,1,0);
  return polynom(0,Offset);
}

// quadratic least square moving average indicator
var QLSMA(vars Data,int Period,int Offset)
{
  polyfit(0,Data,Period,2,0);
  return polynom(0,Offset);
}

// predict price change by parabolic regression
function run(){  vars Diff = series(price(0)-price(1));

  var Correlation = polyfit(0,Diff,15,2,1);// sum up the differences for predicting the price change over the next 3 bars  var Change3 = polynom(0,-1)+polynom(0,-2)+polynom(0,-3); 	  plot("Prediction",price(0)+Change3,MAIN,BLUE);  plot("Correlation",Correlation,NEW,GREEN);}
```

### See also:

[frechet](detect.htm), [advise](advisor.htm), [predict](predict.htm)

[► latest version online](javascript:window.location.href = 'https://zorro-project.com/manual/en' + window.location.href.slice\(window.location.href.lastIndexOf\('/'\)\))
